Guide on how to store secrets locally (#36288)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/config.adoc

TIP: Use `@io.smallrye.config.ConfigMapping` annotation to group multiple configurations in a single interface. Please,
check the https://smallrye.io/smallrye-config/Main/config/mappings/[Config Mappings] documentation.

> == Store secrets in local configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Store secrets in environment properties file
```

I thought you were referring to `application.properties` :-)

A secret (such as a password, a personal access token or an API key) must not end up in version control

> for security reasons. One way is to store them in a local configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for security reasons. One way is to store them in a local environment properties (`.env`) file:
```

. Store the secret in the `.env` file in the project root directory.
+
.The .env file
[source,properties]
----
FOO_API_KEY=ThisIsSecret
----

. Add the `.env` file to `.gitignore`.

. Load the environment variable as a property.
+
.application.properties
[source,properties]
----
foo.api-key=${FOO_API_KEY}

> ----

Reviewer 2: This is an optional step, given that Quarkus already registers the `.env` file as a ConfigSource automatically. You can also use lowercase keys in the `.env` file

Author: Do you mean the `foo.api-key` entry isn't needed for it to work?

Author: Fixing like this:
![image](https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/assets/176880/c608cdda-00b5-48c1-9334-ebf96a28dd4f)
